#summary How to become a contributor and submit patches

= How to become a contributor and submit patches =

== Contributor License Agreements ==

We'd love to accept your code patches! However, before we can take them, we have to jump a couple of legal hurdles.

Please fill out either the individual or corporate Contributor License Agreement.

  * If you are an individual writing original source code and you're sure you own the intellectual property, then you'll need to sign an [http://code.google.com/legal/individual-cla-v1.0.html individual CLA].
  * If you work for a company that wants to allow you to contribute your work to this client library, then you'll need to sign a [http://code.google.com/legal/corporate-cla-v1.0.html corporate CLA].

Follow either of the two links above to access the appropriate CLA and instructions for how to sign and return it. Once we receive it, we'll add you to the official list of contributors and be able to accept your patches.

== Submitting Patches ==

  1. Sign a Contributor License Agreement (see above).
  1. Prepare a changeset that addresses only one issue in the [http://code.google.com/p/gwt-oauth2/issues/list Issue Tracker]. Create a new Issue if there's isn't one already.  Please don't mix more than one logical change per submittal, because it makes the history hard to follow. Coordinate with the team member assigned for that Issue to better coordinate the efforts and make sure we're not duplicating work.  This team member will also be responsible for pulling in your changeset into the official repository at the end of the process.
  1. Adhere to Oracle's [http://www.oracle.com/technetwork/java/codeconv-138413.html Code Conventions for the Java Programming Language].
  1. Sign in to http://codereview.appspot.com and create a new "Issue".  Make sure to use the [http://codereview.appspot.com/static/upload.py upload.py] tool.  Specify the "Issue" number from this client library project Issue Tracker.  Unfortunately, the term "Issue" is confusingly used to mean two different things between the code review tool and the Issue Tracker.
  1. After completing the code review process and receiving approval, we will pull in your changeset into the official repository.